+++
title = "Report a Bug"
[menu.main]
    parent = "Help"
    name   = "Report a Bug"
weight = 35
+++
:toc: macro 
:toc-title:

toc::[]

If you think you found a bug, what information should you include in
your bug report to give as much helpful information to developers as
possible?

Before you get too involved, you should first head over to the
https://bugs.launchpad.net/KiCad/+bugs?orderby=-date_last_updated&start=0[KiCad
bug tracker] and check to see if a bug report for the problem you're
seeing hasn't already been reported.

Filing high quality bug reports is important to help the KiCad
developers fix bugs and improve the quality of KiCad. Good bug reports
allow developers to quickly find and resolve bugs which save limited
developer time. Bug reports should only contain one issue. The
Launchpad bug status reporting only allows for a single status
condition per bug report. Submitting a good bug report requires you to
do some information gathering before submitting your bug.

== Content of a bug report

In which KiCad application did the problem occur? KiCad is made up of
several individual programs. If you are not sure which program you are
using, open the about dialog.  The application name is in the title
bar of the about dialog.

Which version of KiCad are you using? This is critical. There is
nothing worse wasting developers time looking for a bug that has
already been fixed only to find out that the version of KiCad you are
using is two stable releases old. The build information can be found
in the About dialog. Please include the full version information, for
example "4.0.2-stable".

What platform is KiCad being run on? The operating system and version
information, for example Ubuntu 16.04, Debian Squeeze, Windows 10, OSX,
etc.

What version of wxWidgets was used to build KiCad. You can find this
information in the Help -> Copy Version Info menu. Please include the
full description, for example wxWidgets 3.0.2.

If you are building KiCad from source, it is often helpful to know
which tools you are using. Some examples are GCC 4.4.2, Visual Studio
2008, GCC 3.4.5 on MinGW, CMake 2.6.3, etc.  Also including any custom
compiler, linker, and CMake options may be helpful.

As of BZR version 2457 of the testing branch, the KiCad developers
have provided an easier solution for gathering the required
information.  If the application you wish to file a bug report against
is running, you can copy most if not all of the above information to
the clipboard by selecting the "Copy Version Information" entry in the
"Help" menu and pasting it into your bug report. Even if the
application doesn't run, you can use one of the other KiCad
applications to get the build and platform information and manually
edit the application name.

As of BZR version 6617 of the product branch, the copy version
information feature has been updated and moved into the big about
dialog, where you can copy the text into your clipboard.

If you can reliably repeat the problem, please include the exact steps
that cause it. Explain it step by step, such that there is no guessing
what steps you performed.  If the problem occurs with a specific file
or library, please attach it to your bug report if possible.

Now with all your information in hand head on over the the
https://bugs.launchpad.net/KiCad/+bugs?orderby=-date_last_updated&start=0[KiCad
bug tracker].

The KiCad developer team thanks you for your efforts.

== Auxiliary help with launchpad

You can track the status of your bug with the
https://help.launchpad.net/Bugs/Subscriptions[launchpad bug
subscriptions].

The details on the fields in a bug report and the meanings of their
allowed values are described on
http://blog.launchpad.net/general/of-bugs-and-statuses[this page of
the launchpad blog].

== Issues with the kicad-pcb.org website

If you think there is an issue or you want to add something to the
website, go the the
link:https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-website[kicad-website] repo on
github and report it as an
link:https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-website/issues[issue] or make a
link:https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-website/pulls[pull request].
